# 2018 Meeting Minutes — CHAOSS D.E.I. Working Group

This page documents all meeting minutes for the CHAOSS Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion group across 2018.
Meeting notes were sourced from our collaborative Google Doc and moved here to improve performance issues when working in the document.
All meetings are organized chronologically from later in the year to the beginning of the year.

---

December 17, 2018

Agenda Proposal:

  - Update on last week’s Action Items
  - Holiday meeting schedule
  - **Focus of Meeting: Revisit and update Goals for 2019:
    **[*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/123*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/123)

  - Go through open pull requests:
    [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pulls*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pulls)

  - A message from Matt
  - Determine next week’s meeting facilitators and notetaker

Notes:

  - Attending: Georg Link, Dawn Foster, Sarah Conway, Emma Irwin

  - Action items from previous meetings, ongoing:

      - > **AI Nicole: **Describe better how to get involved. Expand the
        > CONTRIBUTING.md

          - open

      - > **AI Nicole:** Coordinate with Ben on revising the README.md

          - open

      - > **AI Maintainers**: put a review of core contributors on
        > agenda once a month

          - Next meeting

      - > **AI Nicole:** Draft a proposal for the D\&I workgroup to
        > submit to OSLS.

          - open

      - > **AI Daniel:**
        > \#[*120*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/120)
        > and
        > \#[*121*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/121)
        >

          - open

      - > **AI Dawn:**
        > \#[*118*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/118)

          - open

      - > **AI Georg:**
        > \#[*116*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/116)

          - In progress: ready for review

      - > **AI Georg**: send old D\&I ML emails to be archived

          - Done sending; waiting for IT to put them in the archive

      - > **AI Georg**: email D\&I list about pull request for adding
        > org affiliations / paid / unpaid as demographics.

          - Done - had good conversation during meeting.

      - > **AI All:** As the metrics repository is going to be removed,
        > we all should be sure that all of the existing metrics in the
        > repository are represented in the D\&I working group (see[*
        > issue
        > \#143*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/143))

          - Need to discuss more

  - Cancel next two week’s meetings. Next meeting is January 7, 2019

  - GOALS 2019

      - > Struck out sentences are often ‘solutions’ and do not belong
        > to the goals and key results.

      - > We went through the goal document and revised every item.

  - Message from Matt:

      - > “I won't make today's D\&I meeting. I think the biggest issue
        > for me is to say that I'm very happy that D\&I has
        > representation on the CHAOSS board.”

  - January 7, next meeting:

      - > Facilitator: Georg,

      - > Notetaker: Dawn

<span id="anchor-159"></span>December 10, 2018

Agenda:

  - Introductions
  - Update on last week’s Action Items
  - Go through open pull requests:
    [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pulls*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pulls)

  - Propose versioning of D\&I metrics \[request from monthly CHAOSS
    Meeting\]
  - Revisit and update Goals for 2019:
    [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/123*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/123)

  - Go through issues on GitHub:
    [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues)
  - Metrics repository, are they represented in the D\&I repo
  - … other?
  - Determine next week’s meeting facilitators and notetaker

Notes:

  - Attending: Dawn Foster, Georg Link, Sarah Conway, Daniel Izquierdo,
    Emma

  - Action items from previous meetings, ongoing:

      - > **AI Nicole: **Describe better how to get involved. Expand the
        > CONTRIBUTING.md

      - > **AI Nicole:** Coordinate with Ben on revising the README.md

      - > **AI Maintainers**: put a review of core contributors on
        > agenda once a month

      - > **AI Nicole:** Draft a proposal for the D\&I workgroup to
        > submit to OSLS.

      - > **AI Daniel:**
        > \#[*120*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/120)
        > and
        > \#[*121*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/121)
        >

      - > **AI Dawn:** \#118

      - > **AI Georg:** \#116

  - New goals of the group? Best practices for D\&I from other working
    groups, organizations, open source projects, etc.

  - Reviewing last meeting actions:

      - > **AI Georg**: send old emails

      - > Actions on contributing or readme: no advances

      - > OSLS submissions: no advances

      - > Advances in some issues: 120 and 121 all related to Leadership
        > focus area, there have not been any advances.

  - Need to decide which meetings to cancel during the holidays:

      - > **AI Dawn**: Send an email to schedule next meetings during
        > holidays.

  - Pull request adds paid contributor vs. unpaid volunteer contributor
    and organizational affiliation to Dimensions of Demographics

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/140*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/140)

  - Discussion about having organization diversity

      - > Should organizational diversity be part of the D\&I working
        > group? Georg had as an answer from his set of surveys that
        > this specific point was important for D\&I.

      - > This specific point was initially not part of the D\&I as
        > people tend to gamify this, but is it important this
        > information? Is more healthy an OSS project lead by a company
        > or by several companies?

      - > This is related to the discussion about paid and unpaid
        > developers in a community.

      - > Having different companies and different commercial view
        > points helps in the health of the community.

      - > We may need a strong rationale for this discussion as having
        > diversity of organizations may be seen as a discussion not
        > related to D\&I

      - > Welcoming to volunteers

      - > This discussion may be left for the general CHAOSS meetings.

      - > **AI Georg**: email D\&I list about pull request

  - Metrics version discussion:

      - > How to version the existing metrics?

      - > How can we link a specific metric with a specific software
        > release? This working group is kind of working in a continuous
        > way.

      - > How can we see the maturity of a metric?

      - > D\&I metrics might be that they are less complex than other
        > metrics.

      - > There’s still a diverse set of opinions :).

      - > This discussion is related to the Objective 4 at the Goals for
        > 2019 document:
        > [*https://docs.google.com/document/d/1\_rwp6f0teAyXZFkJien7nsmV2FankZDhLk9UmrT48vw/edit\#heading=h.o84ezb8hshgr*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_rwp6f0teAyXZFkJien7nsmV2FankZDhLk9UmrT48vw/edit#heading=h.o84ezb8hshgr)

      - > **Proposal:** Defer to GMD for versioning procedure.
        > Preference for periodic batch releases of all CHAOSS metrics
        > with a change log since last release.

  -  Revisit and Update goals for 2019

      - > Discussion about the document.

      - > Why do we have these goals on the table right now? Intro to
        > CHAOSS, Emma’s work, etc.

      - > We’ll wait for Emma for further work. Willing to have this
        > discussion during the next Monday meeting.

  -  Metrics repository, are they represented in the D\&I repo

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/metrics/blob/master/1\_Diversity-Inclusion.md*](https://github.com/chaoss/metrics/blob/master/1_Diversity-Inclusion.md)
        >

      - > **AI All:** As this repository is going to be removed, we all
        > should be sure that all of the existing metrics in the
        > repository are represented in the D\&I working group.

      - > A way to introduce those is to have a new focus area or add
        > metric by metric to each of the existing focus areas.

      - > **AI Georg:** create issue to keep track of this.

  -  Facilitator and notetaker:

      - > Dawn Foster as facilitator.

      - > Georg Link as notetaker.

  -

  -

<span id="anchor-160"></span>December 3, 2018

Agenda:

  - Go through open pull requests
  - Mailing list does not have an archive
  - Revise CONTRIBUTING.md
  - Status of the README (see
    [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/127*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/127))
  - Discuss contributions (see
    [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/126*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/126))

  - Proposals: Python DevRoom, OSLS
  - Rotating Meeting facilitators
  - How do we move people into more active roles?
  - Go though issues on GitHub:
    [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues)
    and summary of last actions
  - ...

Notes:

  - Attending: Dawn Foster, Daniel Izquierdo, Georg Link, Matt
    Germonprez, Nicole Huesman

  - Going through pull requests:

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/130*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/130)

          - merged

      - > **Agreed: **When merging a pull request, delete branches\!

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/131*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/131)

          - Merged

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/134*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/134)

          - Merged

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/133*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/133)

          - New metric: Leadership Diversity
          - PR is to add the list to our focus area
          - Detail Page is developed in this issue:
            [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/132*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/132)

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/128*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/128)

          - Add contributor list. Merged

  - Who contributed? Did we include everyone?

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion\#contributors*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion#contributors)

      - > **AI Dawn:** Someone needs to create a PR to add Matt’s and
        > Nicole’s github account.

      - > Also document that Maintainers will review the list of core
        > contributors once a month.

  - Mailing list does not have an archive

      - > **AI Matt:** Reach out to LF again

  - Some issues closed:

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/77*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/77),
        > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/81*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/81),
        > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/78*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/78)
        > These three tickets were already fixed. Daniel closed them.

  -  Revise CONTRIBUTING.md

      - > How to create pull requests?

      - > We do have a CONTRIBUTING.md

          - [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

      - > **AI Nicole: **Describe better how to get involved. Expand the
        > CONTRIBUTING.md

      - >

  -  Status of the README

      - > (see
        > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/127*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/127))

      - > **AI Nicole:** Coordinate with Ben on revising the README.md

      - > Combine effort with revising the CONTRIBUTING.md

      - >

  -  Discuss contributions

      - > (see
        > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/126*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/126))
        >

      - > We merged the pull request[
        > ](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/128)[*\#128*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/128).

      - > The readme now has our current definitions.

      - > Is there any more need for discussion?

      - > Are there other things we can do to highlight (track)
        > contributions?

      - > **AI Maintainers**: put a review of core contributors on
        > agenda once a month

  - Proposals: Python DevRoom, OSLS

      - > Daniel submitted to Python DevRoom

      - > Open Source Leadership Summit CFP opens now, closes Jan 28,
        > 2019

          - [*https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-leadership-summit-2019/program/cfp/*](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-leadership-summit-2019/program/cfp/)

          - Strategic focused session
          - Goal to contact community leaders who have an interest in
            implementing our work
          - In advance: Prepare our work to be consumable
          - Also get feedback on our work.
          - **AI Nicole:** Draft a proposal for the D\&I workgroup.

  - D\&I representation on Governing Board

      - > Dawn and Georg expressed interest

  - Rotating Meeting facilitators

      - > **Agreed: **We want to rotate.

      - > Proposal: At end of meeting, determine who is facilitating
        > next week, will update agenda, and send out reminder.

      - > Also determine who is responsible for note taking (not same
        > person)

  - How do we move people into more active roles?

      - > D\&I and GMD (tagged on to contributors and maintainers)

      - > Tag issues as ‘good first issue’ or ‘easy bugs’ - send
        > reminder on mailing list that there are easy ways to
        > contribute (once a month?) - maybe a blog post that can be
        > sent out to Twitter or LinkedIn

      - > Send meeting minutes to the CHAOSS list and include at the end
        > of every meeting minutes 1 or 2 easy issues we would like help
        > with.

  -  Go though issues on GitHub:
    [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues)
    and summary of last actions

      - > Please review issues with “ready for review” so that we can
        > move them to pull requests

      - > **AI Daniel:**
        > \#[*120*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/120)
        > and
        > \#[*121*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/121)
        >

  - Meeting End

The D\&I workgroup would appreciate help with the following “good first
issues”:

  - File Naming Standard:
    https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/101

<span id="anchor-161"></span>November 26, 2018

Agenda:

  - Finalize FOSDEM proposals (Python devroom - Daniel)

  - Emma’s Document
    ([*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/123*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/123))
    AND/OR

      - > WE ARE NOW HERE:
        > [*https://docs.google.com/document/d/1\_rwp6f0teAyXZFkJien7nsmV2FankZDhLk9UmrT48vw/edit\#heading=h.afrr9xwu1zby*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_rwp6f0teAyXZFkJien7nsmV2FankZDhLk9UmrT48vw/edit#heading=h.afrr9xwu1zby)

  - DEFER: Discuss Open Canvas until we have more clear objectives

      - > [*~~https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pgBh3T\_CWZR54xRTPCxl5F0S-PR2mhh4QbwXYahdw9A/edit?usp=sharing~~*](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pgBh3T_CWZR54xRTPCxl5F0S-PR2mhh4QbwXYahdw9A/edit?usp=sharing)

      - > ~~Background information on the open canvas:
        > ~~[*~~https://mozilla.github.io/open-leadership-training-series/articles/opening-your-project/develop-an-open-project-strategy-with-open-canvas/~~*](https://mozilla.github.io/open-leadership-training-series/articles/opening-your-project/develop-an-open-project-strategy-with-open-canvas/)

  - Resource Pages that Daniel had worked on, which might be done and
    need merging

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/77*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/77)

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/78*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/78)

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/81*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/81)
        >

  - Go though issues on GitHub:
    [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues)
    and summary of last actions

  - Add new maintainers:

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pulls*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pulls)
        >

  - 24 Pull Requests / Contributions project

Notes:

  - Attending: Georg Link, Dawn Foster, Daniel Izquierdo, Matt
    Germonprez, Nicole Huesman, Emma Irwin

  - Talk submissions

      - > FOSDEM Python DevRoom proposal - Daniel will send Dawn and
        > Emma the materials so that we can decide who to put as the
        > co-presenter.

      - > Dawn will submit the Panel to CHAOSScon right after the
        > meeting

      - > Daniel submitted the Tutorial to CHAOSScon

  - Workgroup Objectives

      - > Emma introduces us to a document she created to facilitate the
        > discussion:

          - [*https://docs.google.com/document/d/1\_rwp6f0teAyXZFkJien7nsmV2FankZDhLk9UmrT48vw/edit\#*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_rwp6f0teAyXZFkJien7nsmV2FankZDhLk9UmrT48vw/edit#)

      - > Emma will drive and everyone will comment and add to broken
        > out step-by-step objectives and key results for 2019.

  - Daniel will create pull requests for the three metrics he finished

  - Work on metrics:

      - > **AI:** Georg will work on Contribution-Type until next week.

      - >

  -  24 Pull Requests/Contributions

      - > Great to see that another project is using our work

      - > Emma met with Andrew and asked about asking a code-of-conduct
        > checklist

      - > Andrew needs good examples for first (non-tech) contributions
        > related to D\&I

      - > **AI:** Emma will share with all of us a draft

<span id="anchor-162"></span>November 19, 2018

Video recording:
[*https://youtu.be/KJ5SZPZaZvY*](https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__youtu.be_KJ5SZPZaZvY&d=DwMFaQ&c=Cu5g146wZdoqVuKpTNsYHeFX_rg6kWhlkLF8Eft-wwo&r=P2SSJg6nDRqSw6MK6ZVW76NaDtv69G3wvyOnOxwzqv0&m=7WLNTKfE2Nv5XGc1cyJ6iOETW23JXGXVj23CAu6Im1g&s=MlCAjUn62JdSV3Jd5rBi3r65Mkb2jCHbXWjQannXeYA&e=)

Agenda:

  - D\&I representation Governing Board

  - Discuss Emma’s involvement in CHAOSS D\&I.

  - Decide on D\&I proposals for FOSDEM Community devroom (due 23rd) &
    CHAOSSCon (due 26th).

      - > CHAOSSCon D\&I Panel Proposal:
        > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/107*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/107)

      - > D\&I Tutorial proposal for CHAOSSCon:
        > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/108*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/108)

  - Discuss Open Canvas

      - > [*https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pgBh3T\_CWZR54xRTPCxl5F0S-PR2mhh4QbwXYahdw9A/edit?usp=sharing*](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pgBh3T_CWZR54xRTPCxl5F0S-PR2mhh4QbwXYahdw9A/edit?usp=sharing)

      - > Background information on the open canvas:
        > [*https://mozilla.github.io/open-leadership-training-series/articles/opening-your-project/develop-an-open-project-strategy-with-open-canvas/*](https://mozilla.github.io/open-leadership-training-series/articles/opening-your-project/develop-an-open-project-strategy-with-open-canvas/)

  - Switch to Discourse for the D\&I workgroup?

      - > [*https://discourse.chaoss.community/*](https://discourse.chaoss.community/)
        >

      - > Our email archive is empty:
        > [*https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/chaoss-diversity-inclusion/*](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/chaoss-diversity-inclusion/)

  - Georg’s Interviews

      - > New page: Leadership: Sponsorship
        > [*https://docs.google.com/document/d/1J-9f\_wYQxP26L\_bF7JpS7Xez18cdM4WsKuw0UpBgVfU/edit*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1J-9f_wYQxP26L_bF7JpS7Xez18cdM4WsKuw0UpBgVfU/edit)
        >

  - Resource Pages that Daniel had worked on, which might be done and
    need merging

  - Go though issues on GitHub:
    [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues)


Action Items:

  -  Matt: send an email to the mailing list asking for nominations for
    Governing Board.
  -
  -

Notes:

  - Attendees: Matt Germonprez, Dawn Foster, Georg Link, Emma Irwin,
    Daniel Izquierdo

  - Upcoming Governing Board Meeting

      - > It would be nice to have D\&I representation on the board.
        > (Self-)Nominations?

      - > Matt will send an email to the mailing list asking for
        > nominations.

  - Missing Archive / Discourse

      - > Request archive from LF IT support

      - > Stay with mailing list, do not use Discourse

  - Emma’s involvement in CHAOSS D\&I

      - > Work will include using metrics, but not time to drive the
        > project

      - > Maybe spend remaining time this year to

  - How do we measure success of the D\&I workgroup

      - > Maybe a whitepaper?

      - > Governing Board involvement (both ways)

      - > How do we engage new people?

      - > Could the LF have a paid person to full time support the
        > CHAOSS effort?

      - > Decide what is the goal and once we reach it disband the
        > workgroup?

      - > CHAOSS fosters a conversation.

      - > Written sharing of our knowledge generated.

      - > Maybe have some user stories. Inspiring other people and
        > sharing.

      - > Expectation setting? - Tell me what metric, tell me what
        > button, tell me what to look for. -- Decisions around metrics
        > is very localized and CHAOSS cannot capture that.

      - >

  - Conference session proposal

      - > Panel and Tutorial are good to submit

      - > Possibly have a Python focused D\&I talk in the FOSDEM python
        > dev room.

  -

  -

  -

  -

<span id="anchor-163"></span>November 11, 2018

Agenda:

  - Review and Discuss Upcoming Conference Submission Proposals:

      - > CHAOSSCon D\&I Panel Proposal:
        > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/107*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/107)

      - > D\&I Tutorial proposal for CHAOSSCon:
        > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/108*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/108)

      - > Discourse

      - > Others?

  - Discuss next categories to tackle

Action Items:

  - **Everyone** - review these 2 proposals
  - **Daniel:** write up the work session proposal
  - **Dawn and Emma:** Think about what to do for FOSDEM Community room.
  - Nicole - what is your GitHub handle so that we can tag you in issues
    to look at (like the one above).
  - **Georg:** Create new issues with google docs for remaining metrics
    **(complete)**

Notes:

  - Attendees: Dawn and Georg.
  - Both of these proposals look good, but we need more people reviewing
    them.
  - Reviewed action items and updated the list above
  - Discourse. Avoid fragmentation by getting rid of email list :-)
  -

<span id="anchor-164"></span>November 5, 2018

Video recording:
[*https://youtu.be/j3vsFoITEms*](https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__youtu.be_j3vsFoITEms&d=DwMFaQ&c=Cu5g146wZdoqVuKpTNsYHeFX_rg6kWhlkLF8Eft-wwo&r=P2SSJg6nDRqSw6MK6ZVW76NaDtv69G3wvyOnOxwzqv0&m=cJTtESLaYz0FjY4UM-4AJaeBS1D48gZpur2WZLKziDA&s=9D8cx9GaliL7L4UW5OZrOwPzA6vO_lMSQOqeUoOmfAg&e=)

Agenda:

\- recap OSSEU tutorial (-)

\- upcoming events

\- find a different time for weekly meetings

\- continue work on metrics

OSS Europe:

  - Session well received
  - Format & structure validated
  - Collecting data, storing, managing, reporting -- make sure it’s
    anonymous -- issues that were mentioned are the same we’ve talked
    about

Upcoming event:

  - OpenStack Summit panel about mentorship -- panel focuses on
    importance of mentors & mentorship programs; opportunity to
    highlight the work we’re doing through the CHAOSS Project, might
    bring up CHAOSS work

  - Next OpenStack Gender report might be structured according to CHAOSS
    focus areas

  - Ideas for 2019 Open Source Summits: measuring/metrics for diversity
    & inclusion

  - CHAOSScon? February 1. Panel? Tutorial? Submit both a tutorial & a
    panel

      - > Idea: have a working session with everyone

      - > \- make one poster for each of focus areas, maybe include
        > dashboard displays

      - > \- participants get postit’s and leave feedback

      - > \- outcome: more buy-in, ownership, sense of contributing,
        > drive adoption

      - > \- ask everyone to post an issue? Or pull requests? Or other
        > low-hanging fruits

      - > Checklist example:
        > [*https://github.com/mozilla/diversity/blob/master/evaluation\_tools/governance-basic.md*](https://github.com/mozilla/diversity/blob/master/evaluation_tools/governance-basic.md)

  - **AI Daniel:** write up the work session proposal

  - **AI Dawn**: write up a proposal for panel

  - **AI Georg:** write up a proposal for tutorial

  - Emma @Drupalcon will be talking about D\&I Metrics (seattle in
    April)

  - FOSDEM Community DevRoom: Submission due 11/23:

      - > Is there a collaborative format for getting input from
        > audience - not good for FOSDEM format

      - > Maybe a talk

      - > Going: Emma, Daniel, Dawn

      - > [*https://medium.com/@leslielauralive/fosdem-2019-community-dev-room-cfp-f60bdc067c22*](https://medium.com/@leslielauralive/fosdem-2019-community-dev-room-cfp-f60bdc067c22)

      - > **AI Dawn and Emma:** Think about what to do

  -

  -  Find new times:

      - > Mondays at 9:30am US Central time

  -  How to advance metrics:

      - > For new metrics, we start a google doc

      - > If we want to get started on a new metric, create new issues
        > and link to a google doc.

      - > **AI Georg:** Setup issues and google docs.

  - Strategy for citations and research that backs up documents

      - > Capture that the page is derived from our experiences

      - > Maybe cite some conferences that already used the metrics or
        > methods

  - FYI Emma updated how she talks about [*CHAOSS WG organization of
    process and
    design.*](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1yBX0vhY2KJhL3iwnZL4xN_Af05Ki0xqMJOx2Ez297Pk/edit#slide=id.g44ad3105be_0_0)

      - > Georg edited slide 5:
        > [*https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vaZlcg\_HfUNY-BkdyGmzpDeO5EHPIKPO0hVppailShA/edit\#slide=id.g44ad3105be\_0\_0*](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vaZlcg_HfUNY-BkdyGmzpDeO5EHPIKPO0hVppailShA/edit#slide=id.g44ad3105be_0_0)
        >

  - **AI Nicole:** Review Readme file for clarity and newcomer
    friendlyness.

  - **AI Nicole:** Twitter promote conference tweets on our @chaossproj
    channel and

<span id="anchor-165"></span>Oct 17, 2018

\- AI Georg: look for CHAOSS related Summit Talks

\- AI Georg: create pr with template -- complete

\- AI Georg: pr to remove authors -- complete

\- AI Georg: pr to remove zero -- complete

\- AI Dawn: pr for event sections

\- AI Daniel: pr for governance

\- AI Emma: pr with code of conduct page

\- AI Nicole: twitter promotions

\- AI Nicole: readme

Zoom Chat:

*From Me (Georg) to Everyone: 06:10 PM*

Planning Doc for Tutorial:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r8NjAiqSIo5\_H0T1vYjUh\_BGzDQLrR7u05v1Aqrmrb0/edit\#heading=h.m3t7pu27euxt

*From Me to Everyone: 06:17 PM*

@Sean, we are working on these slides right now:
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lSmHVgvZe6NN6FHqKXzz6pQEf3qXYR968nc8X0\_UfrA/edit\#slide=id.g42b47b4820\_0\_81

*From Sean Goggins to Everyone: 06:21 PM*

You could do a custom shortened link that’s meaningful … I think bit.ly
lets you do that .. .and goo.gl as well might

I just made this one for my personal website publication list, for
example: http://bit.ly/Sean-Goggins-Pubs

*From Me to Everyone: 06:36 PM*

Template:
https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/blob/master/templates/focus\_area.md

@Emma, thoughts on slide 5 (About Us):
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lSmHVgvZe6NN6FHqKXzz6pQEf3qXYR968nc8X0\_UfrA/edit\#slide=id.g45070d4d76\_0\_0

*From Emma Irwin to Everyone: 06:38 PM*

https://github.com/chaoss/metrics

*From Me to Everyone: 06:59 PM*

https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords/

Agenda** Oct 15, 2018**

Attendance:

Georg, Dawn, Saloni, Nicole, Daniel, Alexander

Team is focused on advancing the content for specific focus areas in
advance of Open Source Summit Europe, to be used within the *Tutorial:
How to Prepare a Diversity & Inclusion Report for Your Community*
session

  - Review WIP to date (e.g. Event Diversity, Governance, Code of
    Conduct & Enforcement, Leadership, and tbd areas from Nicole)
  - Discuss collaboration options for discussions.

Emma is also leading two sessions and will mention CHAOSS work. Sorry I
haven’t shared that yet, because I am behind making slides :S

  - Inclusive Open Governance, What are you Waiting for
  - Metrics that Matter for Diversity & Inclusion

Emma was also invited to speak at Drupalcon in April , and will make
CHAOSS/metric central part of story I share for ‘What Matters for
Inclusion, Matters for Product Innovation’, if someone else wants to
co-submit a proposal for Drupalcon as an actual session, I am sure there
would be interest.

MOSS (Mozilla’s grant program) will be using this[* initial
checklist*](https://github.com/mozilla/diversity/blob/master/evaluation_tools/governance-basic.md),
based on our work. Asking applicants to review as part of applying.

Move to markdown files the existing work in the Google Docs (add
disclaimer about how complete they are or they are not).

Tweets: share slides with Nicole, she will tweet about this.

Next Meeting (any before the Tutorial?)

Related Links:

Links to documents we talked about.

  - Tutorial Planning Doc
    [*https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r8NjAiqSIo5\_H0T1vYjUh\_BGzDQLrR7u05v1Aqrmrb0/edit\#heading=h.m3t7pu27euxt*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r8NjAiqSIo5_H0T1vYjUh_BGzDQLrR7u05v1Aqrmrb0/edit#heading=h.m3t7pu27euxt)
  - Tutorial Slides:
    [*https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lSmHVgvZe6NN6FHqKXzz6pQEf3qXYR968nc8X0\_UfrA/edit\#slide=id.p3*](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lSmHVgvZe6NN6FHqKXzz6pQEf3qXYR968nc8X0_UfrA/edit#slide=id.p3)


Notes:

  -

\*\*\*

Agenda Oct 8, 2018

Attendance:

Dawn, Daniel, Nicole

Notes:

  - Since there was light attendance and not much new work to review, we
    focused on building the agenda for the meeting next week.
  - Note: Position OSSEU as guidance/considerations, rather than a
    mandate
  - Other upcoming events

<!-- end list -->

  - > CHAOSSCon (Feb 1) -- CFP opened, so any amplification would be
    > great

  - > FOSDEM (Feb 2-3) -- discussed possibility of submissions,
    > potential lack of interest among organizers for , wait to submit
    > to Community devroom or other relevant devrooms.

Actions:

  - Nicole to distribute meeting reminders on Fridays
  - All: Team to comment on these areas for review in next week’s
    meeting
  - Nicole to write blog about CHAOSSCon Vancouver to promote CHAOSSCon
    Brussels

Agenda Oct 3, 2018

Attendance:

Georg, Emma, Nicole, Matt, Dawn, Scott Lamons, gelliott, sharan

Shoutouts:  Nicole for organizing our call, and minutes\!

  - Open PRs

      - > [*https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/89*](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/89)

          - Is CHAOSS going to be opinionated about how our work is used
            ?
          - Solution: don’t call it a ‘process’ but call it
            “considerations”
          - AI: Georg will update the upll request

  - OSS Talks

      - > Survey

      - > Data & Metrics

      - > Open Governance

  - Open Tasks

  - Best strategies to connect existing work ?

      - > Inclusivity Bugs

          - Contributor Testing
          - Leadership Standards

      - > Code of Conduct

          - Code of Conduct Assessment Tool (Emma)

**Action Item**.

  - Update PR 89 to be in a Resources folder

  - Create README in Resources folder that describes how to find
    resources

      - > In Focus area directories

      - > Within this directory

      - > External links compiled in a separate file within this
        > directory.

      - > Criteria for adding a new resource…. (we want to keep high
        > quality (have an opinion) on what can be added)

  - Based on Dawn’s review of event diversity, we need to answer this
    question:

      - > Is “ Sample Success Metrics” the right title, if we are
        > leaning towards this section as being about methods?

  - Let’s agree on what should go under the ‘Resources’ list(s), and the
    level of quality we want from that list so as to ensure it’s highly
    valuable, and relevant to the goals for that area.

      - > And a process for adding - that puts burden of resource
        > exploration on the person proposing it.

  - Question: how do we approach overlap between focus areas?

  - Emma working on Code of Conduct, Code of Conduct Enforcement, and
    Leadership to finish by EOD on Oct 12th.

  - Nicole to sign up to complete a few areas (indicate by Monday)


## 2018-09-19

* meeting times
  * weekly meeting
  * **AI:** When is good? -- nicole will send that out
* status on the metrics
  * Dive into work done at CHAOSScon Vancouver, follow up
  * New focus area: How are we welcoming newcomers into the community
* Review this open PR from Emma: https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/pull/68/files
* OSS EU talk - tutorial
* Also OSS EU talk*
* Georg: Open Leaders


## 2018-09-05

* Nicole:
  Is the mentorship analysis / concept already incorporated in the current set of metrics we have so far?
  (Leadership Category)
  * Add questions related to the existence of mentorship programs, and check if there are mentorship programs focused on underrepresented groups of people.
  * Eg: Outreachy or GSoC, or internal programs such as the Upstream Program by the OpenStack Foundation.
  * Study on patterns or anti patterns, work done at Kubernetes
  * Look at the rate of newcomers
* Result from OpenStack:
  * Mentoring via Outreachy lead to longer participation
  * Need to explore this metric
  * Data from Google Summer of Code as well
  * Level of contribution and longevity were positively impacted
* Both K8s and OS have solid ways of welcoming newcomers
  * Want to make sure this is reflected in some way
* On boarding may be seen as the umbrella for helping newcomers, and mentorship might be part of this.
  Others may apply.
  * Metrics:
    * Type of onboarding: 1:1, 1:x, groups
    * Ascending membership ladders (e.g. member -\> reviewer -\> maintainer)
    * Inclusion in decision-making (e.g. elections, OWNERS files)
    * Governance leadership: SIG leader, Steering Committee membership)
  * In speed mentoring program (OS, and Linux communities)
  * [Paris Pittman on mentoring](https://thewomenintechshow.com/2018/06/11/scaling-mentorship-in-kubernetes-with-paris-pittman/)
  * https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/mentoring
* Path forward
  * Suggestion: focus on one focus area at a time
  * We need to prepare beforehand if we want to work together at the same time.
    * E.g. for Event Diversity, we have five questions, we could split these up by person.
      We can prototype them in a google doc each.
      And…
    * Create an issue for each question and a google doc.
      Coordinate work through issue, develop in google doc.
* **AI**: Create 5 Google docs and corresponding issues (Georg)
  * E.g. event diversity:
    * Schedule an agenda for the hour
    * Convert to MD
* OSS EU Tutorial:
  Create a D\&I report for your community
  * [Link to presentation](http://sched.co/FxYK)
  * Do not assume people know some concepts, we should go over all of the concepts we’re going to use.
  * Make clear a difference between diversity and inclusion.
    Why they have different purposes.
  * [Planning document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r8NjAiqSIo5_H0T1vYjUh_BGzDQLrR7u05v1Aqrmrb0/edit?usp=sharing)
  * [Handout cards for during the workshop](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ElytNIm0zOeSdIjS3eR09aqNvg2xz3DG5Z7TAd13d2Q/edit)
  * [Proposed process for generating a report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T_WZIj8gH6EoS3szL1NbGBX70R95EmhIbAP_KyMA2qY/edit)
  * http://sched.co/FxYK


## 2018-08-22

* Panel at CHAOSScon and OSSNA
  * Structure of Documents in D&I repository
  * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LRNBu5f3lw42\_p8\_NtXnt\_2vRSPQvnt\_POhDyse88sk/edit\#heading=h.32q74ak03v67
  * Akshita demo (5-10)
    * https://github.com/akshitac8/diversity_metrics_prototype


## 2018-08-08

* The meetings are a regular space for CHAOSS Diversity and Inclusion discussions, including:
  * Work to establish a common definition and consistent set of metric categories for use across communities
  * Discuss any upcoming activities & events (e.g. Community Leadership Summit, CHAOSSCon, Open Source Summit N.A.)
  * Other topics as surfaced by team members
* Specific discussion items for tomorrow’s meeting:
  * Metric categories & how to address horizontally-focused elements
  * Development of more details for each metric category, with a playbook/guide as the deliverable
  * Inclusion of the **what** and **how** in this playbook/guide
  * Prep for upcoming events
  * OpenStack diversity research—next steps & development of input process
    * How can CHAOSS participate in the research?
    * A document with notes on the process?
* Status of OpenStack diversity research:
  * 3 reports produced
  * Data measured remained mostly the same
  * Expanded parameters of research based on input from community
    * Panel discussions on results, audience suggested e.g. women presented in key notes vs. women presented in all sessions
  * Now: baseline is established - where are we today? Can be answered.
  * We know the top 5 and bottom 5 projects that are diverse (within OpenStack)
  * Now: we want to understand what makes these projects different in the top/bottom 5.
    * What attracts diverse contributors?
    * What is working?
    * Can we have software tools to get at the next level of data to answer the WHY?
    * THEN, can we distill best practices to give to communities to work on their diversity and move the needle on the diversity gap?
  * Feedback strategies:
    * Guided questions - ask community members what they think of results
    * Blog posts
    * Thoughts from OpenStack summit
    * Panel discussions (best feedback, when panel is opened to public)


## 2018-05-23

* Document next steps (see issues [#14](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/14) and [#15](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/issues/15)).
* Start a roadmap (see above).


## 2018-04-08

* Main goal:
  “Its main goal focuses on understanding from a qualitative and quantitative point of view how diversity and inclusion can be measured”
* Sub goals or areas of analysis:
  * Using metrics to further collaboration vs competition
  * Developing metrics to measure collaboration
  * Measuring quality of commits, not just the quantity
  * Ways to operationalize impact
  * How central the piece of code is
* Goal:
  Measure how collaborative a community is (collaborative → inclusive) (lends itself to collaborative work styles)


## 2018-03-25

* We worked on the [session proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1drcJm9m05qNbJ8RAYS1U41GOSq1Ej4dSQa-i-w51Ytc/edit) for the Open Source Summit North America


## 2018-03-18

* We discussed the goals of the workgroup and started [defining categories](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MzDk84BL7FfHDxbFxJz39M72V2Hfc5Y6oCPhOl6woxo/edit) in which we understand diversity and inclusion


## 2018-03-13

* **Updates from OSLS**:
  * Daniel, Nicole, Matt did a presentation on D&I.
  * Attended by about 40 people.
  * Presentation was focused more on using metrics.
    Still a ton of interest in CHAOSS and seeing the project move forward.
  * Slides: https://wiki.linuxfoundation.org/_media/chaoss/slides/2018-03-06_osls.diversityandinclusion.pdf
* **Regarding the WG D&I**:
  * There is a pull request right now on the metrics repository on the Diversity and Inclusion metric category.
    The pull request is about how we present the metrics:
    https://github.com/chaoss/metrics/pull/64
* **Update from OpenStack survey**:
  * The OpenStack survey v2 is almost ready (now has response options) and waiting for final feedback right now:
    https://etherpad.openstack.org/p/diversity-survey-spring-2018_draft
  * Will be sent out in short time.
  * The goal is to expand diversity beyond gender diversity and make sure that everyone feels welcome.
  * Yearly repeat the survey to see if initiatives are being effective.


## 2018-02-27

* No update, still working on To-Do's.


## 2018-02-13

* **To-Do's**:
  * Review existing survey work (Matt)
  * Review GrimoireLab software (Daniel)
  * Mentorship for OpenStack report (Daniel and Nicole)
  * Describe non-technical contributions and document what OpenStack diversity research captured (Nicole)
